A short story by Franz Kafka about a man who is transformed into a monster in his bed.
Samsa woke up one morning to find that his bed had been moved.
“I’m sorry, I’m too tired to go back to sleep”, he said.
When I asked my friend what he did for a living, he said that he worked as a travel agent.
He thought for a moment, and then said again, “I’m sorry, I’m late.
If I was a salesman travelling the world, I’d have to give in my notice a long time ago.
He looked at me and said, “You’re right, I’m not going to work up there anymore.
The alarm clock had not rung, but the sound of it was still ringing.
Gregor’s first day back at work after the summer break was a rather dull affair.
If Gregor had worked for the NHS, what would he have done?
It was the end of the week and Gregor thought he might as well enjoy it.
Gregor’s voice suddenly began to change.
Gregor called his mother to tell her that he was sick.
Gregor woke up in the middle of the night.
It was a strange feeling to wake up in the middle of the night and hear your voice change.
When I was a boy, my father used to tell me that it was very difficult to push myself up, as I had so many little legs.
Gregor was lying on his back on the bed, with his back against the bedpost, and the pain in his lower part of his body was so intense that he could not move.
He was afraid that if he let himself fall, his head would be injured, so he became afraid to carry on pushing himself forward the same way.
It took him a long time to come to terms with the fact that he had been knocked out.
As he lay there, gazing out from his window, he could not help but wonder what was going through his mind.
At first he thought it was a good idea to fall out of bed at seven o’clock in the morning.
Gregor was a bit worried about climbing out of his bed.
He had no choice but to call for help.
Gregor stood still and waited.
Gregor was woken up in the middle of the night by the sound of a maid’s footsteps.
There was a moment when he thought about all the things that had gone wrong.
Gregor fell to the floor.
Gregor asked his father why he had not left the house early.
The chief clerk opened the door to Gregor Samsa’s room and said: “This is Gregor, the lad who missed the train.
“ Gregor, I’m glad you’re here.
The door to the office was locked.
Gregor's mother had already left and his father had left as well.
Gregor’s reaction was one of relief.
One day a young man came into the chief clerk’s office, barricaded himself in his room, and refused to leave.
I’m writing to you because I’m deeply troubled by your behaviour.
“ Sir,” said Gregor, “I’m sorry, but I’m not feeling well.
I’m feeling a bit better now.
“I’m feeling much better, sir.
Gregor was a little surprised when the police came into the station.
The little boy was very scared of heights.
The chief clerk came to Gregor’s room and asked him if he had heard the voice of an animal.
Gregor was sitting in the living room with his sister and brother-in-law when the alarm went off.
The doctor and the locksmith had come to help him, but they could not understand what he was saying.
Gregor's voice was a little hoarse.
The little boy climbed up the ladder and reached the top of the door.
Gregor was lying on the floor with his back to the door, his head against the lock, his arms and legs stretched across the floor.
The lock on the door to the room was broken.
Gregor’s father stood up from his seat and began to push the door open.
Gregor looked at his father with a mixture of fear and dread.
Gregor and his friends were sitting around the dining table, talking about what they had just read in the newspaper.
The three of them stood on the steps of the first floor of the block of flats.
When the chief clerk asked the commercial traveller to leave the office, he said, “I’m sorry, I’m having a bit of a problem.
I’m writing to tell you that I’m struggling to make ends meet at work.
I’m not sure what you’re talking about, sir.
Gregor said to the chief clerk, “I’m sorry, but I’m not quite right.
Gregor had been looking forward to this day for a long time, but he had never imagined that it would turn out to be such a bad day.
Gregor did not think about the future, he did not think about the past.
Gregor, who had been lying on his back on the floor of the chamber for some time now, was now lying on his back on the floor of the chamber.
It was the morning of the first day of the week, and the little boy was lying on his back on the floor, waiting for the day when he would be able to move again.
Gregor was sitting down to eat his breakfast when the accident happened.
Gregor's mother screamed in pain.
The chief clerk came into Gregor’s room.
The door to the family room creaked open, a creak that Gregor could not hear.
Gregor went back to his room and his father went back to his room.
The story begins with Gregor's father trying to help his son by giving him directions from a distance as to which way to turn.
He turned round and heard a hissing sound coming from the other side of the door.
The father did not intend to cause any trouble.
The little boy lay on his back on the floor, his arms and legs stretched out across the room, his eyes fixed on his father as if he were watching him.
The door to the front room was closed with a stick.
The door was open, and the boy was drawn over to it by the smell of something.
A few days after the death of his father, the young man went to his uncle's house.
Gregor sat down to drink the milk.
Gregor’s father used to read the Bible in the living room.
One night Gregor was woken up by a timorous noise in his room.
It was early in the morning when the boy went to bed, and he was woken by the sound of the gaslight in the living room.
It was a cold, grey night when Gregor woke up.
The night before Gregor's transfer to the hospital, he slept in the living room of his parents' house.
She slammed the door to the living room, and Gregor fell asleep under the couch.
How would his sister react if she found out that he had left milk under the couch?
The day after Gregor's birthday, his sister came home with a piece of crockery that had fallen off her table.
When she had finished, she hurried out of the room and put Gregor’s legs back in the dish.
A few days ago a man came to my house and asked if he could eat some of the food on the front page of the newspaper.
A young man was sitting under the couch in his sister's room when he suddenly realised that he had to leave.
Gregor stood under the couch, watching his sister’s work.
Gregor’s sister did not want him to starve.
When she was a little girl, and Gregor was still a few months old, she would often say to him, “I’ve got to go and get something for supper”, or, “I’ve got to go and get something
It was a strange situation.
Gregor’s mother had hired a maid to help with the cooking.
All the children in Gregor’s family were vegetarians.
Gregor’s father sat down at the table with his family.
When Gregor’s father went into business for himself, he had no idea what he was getting himself into.
The story begins with a young man, Gregor, who had worked hard all his life in the coal mines of the north west of Scotland, but had been unable to make a living out of it, until one day he was offered a job
The story of Gregor and his sister is told through the eyes of a young boy who has a secret plan to send his sister to a conservatory.
When he was a child, his father would come home from work and he would sit down at the kitchen table and listen to his father’s conversation.
Gregor was fascinated by the money.
The money that the family had been keeping in the bank had been accumulating over the years.
When I was a child, my father used to borrow money from the bank to buy things for the family.
When Gregor’s father died, his mother and sister had to move into the family home.
Gregor and his friends used to sleep on the sofa in the living room.
The old man was looking out the window of his flat in the middle of the city.
Gregor's pain was so great that he could hardly move his chair.
Gregor’s mother had become very anxious about the view into her son’s room.
Gregor’s sister always thought he was the most horrible person she had ever seen, but when she saw him for the first time after his transformation, she was shocked.
One day, Gregor's sister left the house early to go to the shops.
When Gregor came home from school, his mother put a sheet under his bed to keep him warm.
Gregor would often hear his parents talking about how much they liked his sister.
Gregor’s father was a soldier, and Gregor’s sister was a maid.
The story of Gregor, a young boy who crawled up and down the walls and ceiling of his mother’s house, is told through the eyes of his mother.
Gregor fell down the stairs and landed on his back.
Gregor’s sister was about to open the kitchen door for the first time since the cook had left.
Gregor's mother came into the room and looked round to see what had happened.
Gregor’s mother looked at him with a puzzled look on her face.
She thought it was a good idea to take the furniture away, as it was no longer fit for purpose.
“ Gregor, you’re going to have to stay with us for two months.
The cave was not meant to be a place where he could forget his past.
Gregor’s mother agreed that the furniture in the family room should be removed.
When Grete was a young girl, her mother would often tell her not to do anything she did not think was right.
Gregor's mother and Grete's wife were in the next room.
Gregor was sitting on his mother’s lap when he noticed that a sheet of paper was being moved from one end of the couch to the other.
He could not believe his eyes.
The man in charge of the office was not aware that the women were there.
Gregor went to look at the picture.
Grete was sitting in the living room with her mother when Gregor entered the room.
Grete’s eyes lit up when she saw Gregor.
Grete ran into one room to fetch some kind of smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint.
Gregor's father had died, and Gregor's mother had gone to live with her brother's family.
Grete was lying on the kitchen floor.
Grete said to Gregor, “I’m sorry, but I’m not going to talk to you again.
When Gregor saw his father's face, he knew that he had to do something.
The door was open, and Gregor's father was standing there with his head between his legs.
The same tired man as used to be laying there entombed in his bed when Gregor came back from his business trips, who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his nightgown when he came back in the evenings; who was hardly even
It was the first time he had seen Gregor since the day he was born.
One day Gregor's father came into the room with a pair of new boots.
Gregor's father had been running around the house, carrying Gregor on his back and carrying Gregor on his chest.
Gregor's father had told him that he should run as fast as he could, as fast as he could, as fast as he could, as fast as he could, as fast as he could, as fast as he could.
Gregor’s back was throbbing with pain.
Gregor’s world came to an abrupt end.
Gregor’s family gathered around him in the waiting room of the hospital.
One of the most remarkable things that happened to my grandfather was that he was able to watch the dinner table.
Gregor's family had changed.
Gregor’s father would sleep in his bed while his mother sewed.
The night before Gregor’s 10th birthday, his father brought home a new coat from work.
When Gregor was a little boy he would sit quietly at the table and wait for his mother to come home.
When Gregor’s mother took him to the doctor he would not look at her.
When Gregor’s father died, the family had to cut back on the amount of time they spent together.
There were many complaints from people who had lived in the same block of flats for many years about the condition of the building.
Gregor’s mother and sister worked hard all their lives.
Gregor’s father had died a long time ago, and Gregor’s mother had died too, but Gregor’s father was still in charge of the family business.
Sometimes Gregor was in a hurry to get home from school, and his sister would sweep it away with a broom before she went out to work.
When Gregor's sister arrived at the house, she had already cleared up the mess left behind by her parents.
The day after Gregor’s death, his mother became very angry.
The noise was so loud that Gregor’s sister, who was sitting next to his mother, could not hear anything.
The charwoman’s presence in Gregor’s life was a surprise.
The first time Gregor was seen in the garden was when he was about a year old and he was standing on the edge of the front door of the house when he was approached by a woman.
Gregor’s life had become a bit of a nightmare because of the way he was being spoken to.
The woman put the chair back in the corner.
Gregor and his friends had moved into a new flat in the centre of Edinburgh.
The charwoman and her family had recently moved into a new house.
Gregor would crawl around in the junk that was thrown out by the woman who lived there.
The house where Gregor was born was a large house, and the charwoman and her family lived in it.
Three gentlemen emerged from the kitchen.
Gregor’s father came into the living room, bowed once with his cap in his hand and did his round of the table.
Gregor and his friends had been playing the violin in the kitchen all day.
The story begins with a meal in the kitchen.
Gregor’s father stepped up to the music stand and said to the middle gentleman, “There’s a violin player here.
The little girl was dressed in her school uniform, with a blue and white striped shirt and shorts, and a blue and white striped skirt.
Gregor’s attention was drawn to the playthings.
Gregor’s eyes were fixed on the window sill as if he were watching the world go by.
Gregor’s parents were sitting in the front row of the orchestra.
The violin was playing, and Gregor's eyes lit up.
He never wanted to leave her.
Gregor’s father would tell him that his mother had died, and Gregor would tell him that his sister had died, and Gregor would tell him that his sister had died.
Gregor’s father was not too happy about it.
The three gentlemen who had been watching Gregor’s violin playing in the living room suddenly ran out of the room and ran back in.
Gregor’s father was so obsessed with making the beds that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants.
The man stood up and raised his hand to greet Gregor and his family.
Gregor’s eyes welled with tears as he heard the words: “And we give immediate notice.”
He was sitting in his mother’s lap, waiting for her to come out of the room.
Gregor’s sister whispered to his mother, “I’m sorry, Gregor, but you have a monster in your family.
Gregor’s sister looked at her father with a mixture of concern and dread, as if she were trying to make sense of what was happening to her brother.
When her father asked her what she wanted to do with her life, she said: “I want to die.
Gregor’s father and sister looked at each other with a mixture of regret and anger.
Gregor’s brother was killed by a fox.
The youngest of Gregor’s three sisters was very frightened.
Gregor turned round and looked at his family.
The little boy crawled as fast as he could.
The noise behind Gregor was so loud he could not hear his mother's voice.
Gregor’s sister had finally arrived.
The pain in his back was so great that he could hardly walk.
Gregor slept through the night, his eyes fixed on the window sill, waiting for the light to come through.
When she saw Gregor lying on the floor she thought he was dead.
The maid came into the Samsa house with a big bucket of cleaning fluid in her hand.
The Samsa family went into Gregor’s room.
“That’s what I said”, said Gregor.
The Samsa family were woken up by the cleaner in the middle of the night.
The cleaning lady came out of her room and looked around.
Grete Samsa, the eldest of the three children of the Samsa family, had been crying a little, and her mother had been crying a little too.
“Okay, let’s go”, said the man.
At the end of the speech, the leader of the opposition stood up, took his sticks from the stand, and walked towards the front hallway.
The Samsa family was sitting on the steps of their flat when three men came out of the shadows, one of them carrying a tray of meat.
Grete, Mr Samsa and Mrs Samsa had just returned from their day off.
The charwoman stood in the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous good news to report, but would only do it if she was clearly asked.
Grete asked the cleaner if she had got rid of it.
The charwoman had just finished her shift and was about to leave when she noticed that the Samsa family had gone out for dinner.
The two women came into the flat and started writing letters to him.
The three of them sat together, arms crossed.
Grete’s parents had been having a difficult time of late.