translated by David Wyllie I Franz Kafka Translated by David Wyllie I One morning, when Gregor Samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found himself transformed in his bed into a horrible
Samsa was a travelling salesman—and above it hung a picture that he had recently cut out of an illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame. It showed a
was sleeping on his right, and in his present state couldn’t get into that position. However hard he threw himself onto his right, and in his present state couldn’t get into that position. Gregor then turned
has tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that he wouldn’t have to look at the floundering legs, and only stopped when he began to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had
. He felt a slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better; found where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with
the boss and told him what I think, tell him everything I would, let him know just what I feel. If I didn’t have my parents to think about I’d given in my notice a long time ago, I
’d fall right off his desk! And it’s a funny sort of business to be sitting up there at your desk, talking down at your subordinates from up there, especially when you have to go right up close because
that it had been set for four o’clock as it should have been; it certainly must have rung. He could see from the bed that it had been set for four o’clock as it should have been; it
he would not avoid his boss’s anger as the office assistant would have been there to see the five o’clock train go, he would have put in his report about Gregor’s not being there a long
reported sick? But that would be extremely strained and suspicious as in five years of service Gregor had never once yet been ill. His boss would certainly come round with the doctor from the medical insurance company, accuse his parents of
was shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be recognised as the voice he had had before. Gregor did in fact, apart from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, feel completely well and even
to explain everything, but in the circumstances contented himself with saying: “Yes, mother, yes, thank-you, I’m getting up now.” The change in Gregor’s voice probably could not be noticed outside through
a short conversation made the other members of the family aware that Gregor, against their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. “
went back to his breakfast, but his sister whispered: “Gregor, open the door, I beg of you.” Gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, and instead congratulated himself for his
remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned out to be pure imagination and wondered how his imaginings would slowly resolve themselves today. He remembered that
he would have used his arms and his hands to push himself up; but instead of them he only had all those little legs continuously moving in different directions, and which he was unable to control. If he wanted to
Gregor wanted to do was get the lower part of his body out of the bedpost, but he had never seen this lower part, and could not imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move;
he managed to get the top part of his body out of the bed first, carefully turning his head to the side. So then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed first, carefully turning his head
he could not knock himself out now at any price; better to stay in bed than lose consciousness. It took just as much effort to get back to where he had been earlier, but when he lay there sighing
, but he did not forget to remind himself that calm consideration was much better than rushing to desperate conclusions. At times like this he would direct his eyes to the window and look out as clearly as he could, but unfortunately
the task of swinging the entire length of his body out of the bed all at the same time. If he succeeded in falling out of bed in this way and kept his head raised as he did so he could probably avoid
Gregor’s back seemed to be quite hard, and probably nothing would happen to it falling onto the carpet. His main concern was for the loud noise he was bound to make, and which even through all the doors would probably raise
to call for help, even apart from the fact that all the doors were locked? Despite all the difficulty he was in, he could not suppress his smile at this thought.
, and Gregor has moved so far across that it would have been hard for him to keep his balance if he rocked too hard. After a while Gregor had already moved so far across that it would have been
the chief clerk himself. Why did Gregor have to be the only one condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly suspicious at the slightest shortcoming? Were all employees, every one of them, lout
. Was it really not enough to let one of the trainees make enquiries—assuming enquiries were even necessary—did the chief clerk come himself, and did they have to show the whole, innocent family that this was so suspicious that only the
he hit it as he fell; annoyed and in pain, he turned it and rubbed it against the carpet. “Something’s fallen down in there”, said the chief clerk in the room on the left.
to his left, Gregor’s sister whispered to him to let him know: “Gregor, the chief clerk is here.” “Yes, I know”, said Gregor to himself; but without daring to raise his voice
isn’t well, please believe me. Why else would Gregor have missed a train! The lad only ever thinks about the business. It nearly makes me cross the way he never goes out in the evenings
is here. He sits with us in the kitchen and just reads the paper or studies train timetables. His idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw. He’s made a little frame, for instance, it
, Gregor. In the room on his right there followed a painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began to cry. “No”, said Gregor. “Can the chief clerk come in to see you now then
he was still there and had not the slightest intention of abandoning his family. So why did his sister not go and join the others? She had probably only just got up and had not even begun to get dressed. And why
to leave him now in peace instead of disturbing him with talking at him and crying. But the others didn’t know what was happening, they were worried, that would excuse their behaviour. For the moment Gregor lay there on the carpet
you are causing serious and unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail—and I mention this just by way—you fail to carry out your business duties in a way that is quite unheard of. I am aston
knew you as a calm and sensible person, and now you suddenly seem to be showing off with peculiar whims. This morning, your employer did suggest a possible reason for your failure to appear, it’s true—
, but since you cause me to waste my time here for no good reason I don’t see why your parents should not also learn of it. Your turnover has been very unsatisfactory of late; I grant you that it
last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me, I had a small symptom of it last night already. They must have noticed it. I don’t know why I didn’t let you know at work
, and while Gregor gushed out these words, he made his way over to the chest of drawers—this was easily done, probably because of the practise he had already had in bed—where he now tried
. He really did want to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak with the chief clerk; the others were being so insistent, and he was curious to learn what they would say when they caught
to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just slid down again, but finally gave himself one last swing and stood there upright; the lower part of his body was in serious pain but he no longer gave any
his parents, “surely he’s not trying to make fools of us”. “Oh, God!” called his mother, who was already in tears, “he could be seriously ill and we’re making him suffer
, Anna! Anna!” his father called into the kitchen through the entrance hall, clapping his hands, “get a locksmith here, now!” And the two girls, their skirts swishing, immediately ran out through the
, and that made him feel better. He felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and from the doctor and the locksmith he expected great and surprising achievements—although he did not really distinguish one from the other.
Gregor coughed a little, but taking care to do this not too loudly as even this might sound different from the way a human coughs and he was no longer sure he could judge this for himself.
able to start the key turning, ignoring the fact that he must have been causing some kind of damage as a brown fluid came from his mouth, flowed over the key and dripped onto the floor.
. As the key turned round he turned around the lock with it, only holding himself upright with his mouth, and hung onto the key or pushed it down again with the whole weight of his body as needed. As the key
, and he lay his head on the handle of the door to open it completely. The clear sound of the lock as it snapped back was Gregor’s sign that he could break his concentration, and as he 
was still occupied with this difficult movement, unable to pay attention to anything else, when he heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud “Oh!”, which sounded like the soughing of the wind.
into the living room, covered his eyes with his hands and wept so that his powerful chest shook. So Gregor unfolded her arms, took two steps forward towards Gregor and sank down onto the floor
half of his body could be seen, along with his head above it which he leant over to one side as he peered out at the others. Meanwhile the day had become much lighter; part of the endless grey-black
a lieutenant in the army, his sword in his hand and a carefree smile on his face as he called forth respect for his uniform and bearing. On the wall exactly opposite there was photograph of Gregor when 
Gregor, well aware that he was the only one to keep calm, “I’ll get dressed straight away now, pack up my samples and set off. Will you please just let me leave? You can see”, Gregor
to be temporarily unable to work, but that’s just the right time to remember what’s been achieved in the past and consider that later on, once the difficulty has been removed, he will certainly work with all the more
you have a better overview than the rest of the staff, in fact, if I can say this in confidence, a better overview than the boss himself—it’s very easy for a businessman like him to make
it’s almost impossible to defend yourself from that sort of thing, we don’t usually hear about them, or if at all it’s when we arrive back home exhausted from a trip, and that’s when we
. The chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders as he left. He moved steadily towards the
realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be put into extreme danger. Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let
parents did not understand very well; over the years, they had become convinced that this job would provide for Gregor for his entire life, and besides, they had become convinced that this job would provide for Gregor for his entire life
a lover of women, surely she could convince him; she would close the front door in the entrance hall and talk him out of his shocked state. But his sister was not there, Gregor would have to do the job himself.
the urge to move but swayed from side to side as he crouched there on the floor. He began to feel alright with his body; the little legs had the solid ground under them; to his pleasure
mother was not far away in front of him and seemed, at first, quite engrossed in herself, but then she suddenly jumped up with her arms outstretched and her fingers spread shouting: “Help
the chief clerk for the moment, but could not help himself snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the flow of coffee. That set his mother screaming anew, she fled from the table and into the arms
, but now, instead of running after the chief clerk himself, or at least not impeding Gregor as he ran after him, Gregor’s father seized the chief clerk’s stick in his right hand (the
. Across the room, despite the chilly weather, Gregor’s mother pulled open a window, leant far out of it and pressed her hands to her face. A strong draught of air fle
round he would have been back in his room straight away, but he was afraid that if Gregor had only been allowed to turn round he would become impatient, and there was the threat of a lethal blow
realised that he had no choice as he saw, to his disgust, that he was quite incapable of going backwards in a straight line; so he began, as quickly as possible and with frequent anxious glance
the doorway, but then saw that it was too narrow, and his body was too broad to get through it without further difficulty. In his present mood, it obviously did not occur to his father to open the other of the double doors
Gregor, making more noise than ever, was to drive Gregor forwards all the harder as if there had been nothing in the way; it sounded to Gregor as if there was now more than one father behind
, the legs along one side hung quivering in the air while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the ground. Then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which released him from where
, and Gregor awoke from his deep and coma-like sleep. He had the impression that some hurried steps and the sound of the door leading into the front room being carefully shut had woken him.
pushed himself over to the door, feeling his way clumsily with his antennae—of which he was now beginning to learn the value—in order to see what had been happening there. The whole of his left
dipped his head into the milk, nearly covering his eyes with it. But he soon drew his head back again in disappointment; not only did the pain in his tender left side make it difficult to eat the
Milk like this was normally his favourite drink, and his sister had certainly left it there for him because of that, but Gregor turned, almost against his own will, away from the dish and crawled back into the centre of the room
, and, gazing into the darkness, felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents. “What a quiet life it is the
Gregor did not want to think about too much, so he started crawling up and down the room. Once during that long evening, the door on one side of the room was opened very slightly and hurriedly closed again
the gaslight in the living room was put out, and now it was easy to see that his parents and sister had stayed awake all that time, as they all could be heard as they went away together on tip-toe.
was living in it for five years. It was clear that no-one would come into Gregor’s room any more until morning; that gave him plenty of time to think undisturbed about how he would have to 
spent the whole night there. Some of the time he passed in a light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of his hunger, and some of the time was spent in worries and vague hopes which,
soon had the opportunity to test the strength of his decisions, as early the next morning, almost before the night had ended, his sister, nearly fully dressed, opened the door from the front room and looked anxiously in. She did not
to the edge of the couch, and watched her. Would she notice that he had left the milk as it was, realise that it was not from any lack of hunger and bring him in some other food that was more suitable? If
sister noticed the full dish immediately and looked at it and the few drops of milk splashed around it with some surprise. She immediately picked it up—using a rag, not her bare hands—and carried it out.
Gregor had declared inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread with butter and salt. Then, out of consideration for Gregor’s feelings, as she knew that he would not eat
’s legs whirred, at last he could eat. His injuries must already have completely healed as he found no difficulty in moving. This amazed him, as more than a month earlier he had cut his
the smell. Long after he had finished eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister turned the key in the lock as sign to him that he should withdraw. He was immediately startled, although he had
self-control to stay there even for the short time that his sister was in the room. He needed great self-control to stay there even for the short time that his sister was in the room, as eating so much food had 
had hardly turned her back before Gregor came out again from under the couch and stretched himself. This was how Gregor received his food each day now, once in the morning while his parents and the maid were still asleep, and
to everything—there was, of course, no question of her ever becoming fully used to the situation—that Gregor would sometimes catch a friendly comment, or at least a comment that could be construed as friendly.
was able to hear any news directly, and whenever he heard anyone speaking he would scurry straight to the appropriate door and press his whole body against it. Although Gregor wasn’t able to hear any news
Gregor’s mother. And on the very first day the maid had fallen to her knees and begged Gregor’s mother to let her go without delay. And on the very first day the maid had fallen to
about what had happened but she left within a quarter of an hour, tearfully thanking Gregor’s mother for her dismissal as if she had done her enormous service. She even swore emphatically not to
. His sister would ask his father if he would like a beer, hoping for the chance to fetch it herself. When his father said nothing she would add, so that he would not feel selfish, that she could send
Gregor heard how he opened the complicated lock and then closed it again after he had taken the item he wanted. What he heard his father say was some of the first good news that Gregor heard since he had
, and Gregor started working hard, with a fiery vigour that raised him from a junior salesman to a travelling representative almost overnight, bringing with it the chance to earn money in quite different ways. So
he had earned so much that he was in a position to bear the costs of the whole family, and did bear them. They had even got used to it, both Gregor and the family, they took the money with
, she was very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist, it was his secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it would cause great expense that would have to be made up for in some other
was the sort of totally pointless thing that went through his mind in his present state, pressed upright against the door and listening. There were times when he simply became too tired to continue listening, when his head would fall wearily
things, his father repeated himself several times, partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with these matters himself and partly because Gregor’s mother did not understand everything the first time. From these repeated explanation
he could have used this surplus money to reduce his father’s debt to his boss, and the day when he could have freed himself from that job would have come much closer, but now it was certainly better the way his
father was healthy but old, and lacking in self confidence. His father was healthy but old, and lacking in self confidence. During the five years that he had not been working—the first holiday in a life that had been
Gregor’s elderly mother now have to go and earn money? She suffered from asthma and it was a strain for her just to move about the home, just to move about the home, every other day would be spent struggling for
Gregor would always let go of the door and then throw himself onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with shame and regret. Or he might go to all the effort of pushing a chair
He had used to feel a great sense of freedom from doing this, but doing it now was obviously something more remembered than experienced, as what he actually saw in this way was becoming less distinct every day, even things that were quite near
only needed to notice the chair twice before she would always push it back to its exact position by the window after she had tidie up the room, and even left the inner pane of the window open from then on. His
. She would alarm Gregor twice a day with this running about and noise making; he would stay under the couch shivering the whole while, knowing full well that she would certainly have liked to spare him this ordeal
Gregor’s transformation when his sister no longer had any particular reason to be shocked at his appearance, she came into the room a little earlier than usual and found him still staring out the window, motionless, and just where
went straight to hide himself under the couch, but Gregor went straight to hide himself under the couch, of course, but he had to wait until midday before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than usual.
. She left the sheet where it was. If she did not think this sheet was necessary then all she had to do was take it off again, as it was clear enough that it was no pleasure for Gregor to cut himself off so
would often hear them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing even though, before, they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat useless and frequently annoyed with her. But now the two of them, father and
mother also wanted to visit Gregor relatively soon, but his father and sister convinced her against it. Later, though, she had to be held back by force, which made her call out: “Let me go and see Gregor
Gregor’s wish to see his mother was soon realized. Out of consideration for his parents, Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day, the few square meters of the floor did not give him much room to crawl
had a light swing to it; and up there, relaxed and almost happy, it might happen that he would surprise even himself by letting go of the ceiling and landing on the floor with a crash. But now, of
and his sister noticed Gregor’s new way of entertaining himself—he had left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about—and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him
the sheet down lower over the couch and put more folds into it so that everything really looked like it had just been down by chance. Gregor also refrained from spying out from under the sheet; he gave up the chance
to get the job finished before Gregor’s father got home and leaving it in the middle of the room it would be in his way even more, and for another thing it wasn’t sure that taking the furniture away would really be
. She thought just the opposite; the sight of the bare walls saddened her right to her heart; and why wouldn’t Gregor feel the same way about it, he’d been used to this furniture in his
mother made Gregor realise that the lack of any direct human communication, along with the monotonous life led by the family during these two months, must have made him confused. Hearing these words from his mother made Gregor realise that the lack
he would have wanted to transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out with the nice furniture he had inherited? That would have let him crawl around unimpeded in any direction, but it would also
. His sister, unfortunately, did not agree; she had become used to the idea, not without reason, that she was Gregor’s spokesman to his parents about the things that concerned him. This meant that his mother’
to enter a room dominated by Gregor crawling about the bare walls by himself. Grete would probably be the only one who would dare enter a room dominated by Gregor crawling about the bare walls
. He meant to be as careful and considerate as he could, but the writing desk had to stay. Grete in the next room had her arms round the chest, pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself without
is not able to prevent the sheet at its front from moving a little. His mother was not used to the sight of Gregor, he might have made her ill, so Gregor hurried backwards to
high school, even while he had been at infant school—he couldn’t wait to see if the two women’s intentions were good. With his head and legs pulled in against him and his body pressed to the floor
had nearly forgotten they were there anyway, as they were now too tired to say anything while they worked and he could only hear their feet as they stepped heavily on the floor. So, while the women were leant against the desk
. He hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself against its glass, it held him firmly and felt good on his hot belly. He turned his head to face the door into the living room so that he could watch
. Grete’s eyes met those of Gregor on the wall. Perhaps only because her mother was there, she remained calm, bent her face to her so that she would not look round and said, albeit hurried
Grete’s words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to one side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the wallpaper, and before she even realised it was Gregor that she saw screame
; she ran into the other room to fetch some kind of smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint; Gregor wanted to help too—he could save his picture later, although he stuck fast to the glass and
So now Gregor was shut out from his mother, who, because of him, might be near to death; he could not open the door if he did not want to chase his sister away, and she had to stay with
lay there for a while, numb and immobile, all around him it was quiet, maybe that was good sign. The maid, of course, had locked herself in her kitchen so that Grete would have to go
.” “Just as I expected”, said his father, “just as I always said, but you women wouldn’t listen, would you.” “Just as I expected”, said his father, “just as I always said, but you
came in, sounding like he were both angry and glad at the same time. His father, though, was not in the mood to notice subtleties like that; “Ah!”, he shouted as he
Gregor drew his head back from the door and lifted it towards his father. He really had not imagined his father the way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit of crawling about, he
and his mother. The same tired man as used to be laying there entombed in his bed when Gregor came back from his business trips, who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his nightgown when
was standing up straight enough now; dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by the employees at the banking institute; above the high, stiff collar of the coat his strong double-chin emerged; under the bush
knew full well, right from the first day of his new life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely strict with him. And so Gregor ran up to his father, stopped when his father stopped, scurried
remained on the floor all this time, mostly because he feared his father might see it as especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or ceiling. Whatever he did, Gregor had to admit that he
, as he lurched about in his efforts to muster all the strength he could for running he could hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too slow for him to think of any other way of saving
. An apple thrown without much force glanced against Gregor’s back and slid off without doing any harm. An apple thrown without much force glanced against Gregor’s back and slid off without doing
his father, her skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground, stumbling over the skirts she pushed herself to his father, her arms around him, uniting herself with him totally—now 
No-one dared to remove the apple lodged in Gregor’s flesh, so it remained there as a visible reminder of his injury. He had suffered it there for more than a month, and his condition seemed
was reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room—crawling over the ceiling was out of question—but this deterioration in his condition was fully (in his
. They no longer hold the lively conversations of earlier times, of course, the ones that Gregor always thought about with longing when he was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. All of them were usually
father would wake up and say to Gregor’s mother “you’re doing so much sewing again today!”, as if he did not know that he had been dozing—and then he would go back to
, but as soon as it struck ten, Gregor’s mother and sister would speak gently to his father to wake him and try to convince him to go to bed. As soon as it struck ten, Gregor’s
had been in work he had become more obstinate and would always insist on staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep and it was then harder than ever to convince him to exchange the chair for his bed.
would just sink deeper into his chair. Only when the two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes, look at them one after the other and say: “What a life! This is what peace I
Gregor. Who, in this tired and overworked family, would have had time to give more attention to Gregor than was absolutely necessary? The household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; an enormous
to move, it would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate with a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back from their decision to move was much more to do with their total despair
Gregor’s father brought bank employees their breakfast, his mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers, but they just did not have the
hardly slept at all, either night or day. Sometimes he would think of taking over the family’s affairs, just like before, the next time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss and the
to work in the morning and at midday, and in the evening she would sweep it away again with the broom, indifferent as to whether it had been eaten or—more often than not—was left completely untouched.
. She still cleared up the room in the evening, but now she could not have been any quicker about it. Smears of dirt were left on the walls, here and there were little balls of dust and filth. At
she became touchy in a way that was quite new for her and which everyone in the family understood—cleaning up Gregor’s room was for her and her alone. Gregor’s mother did once thoroughly clean his room
father, standing to the right of his mother, accused her of not leaving the cleaning of Gregor’s room to his sister; from her left, Gregor’s sister screamed at her that she was never to
. Gregor’s sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking after Gregor as she had done before was even more work for her, and looking after Gregor as she had done before was even more work for her.
. He was taken totally by surprise, no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro while she stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in front of her. From then on she never failed to
Gregor was so resentful of it that he started to move toward her, he was slow and infirm, but it was like a kind of attack. Instead of being afraid, the charwoman just lifted
eating. At first Gregor thought it was distress at the state of his room that stopped him eating. At first Gregor thought it was distress at the state of his room that stopped him eating, but soon got used to the changes made
Gregor learned peering through the crack in the door one day—were painfully insistent on things being tidy. This meant not only in their own room but, since they had taken a room in this establishment, in the
Gregor’s room. All these things found their way into Gregor’s room. The dustbins from the kitchen found their way in there too. The charwoman was always in hurry, and anything she couldn’t
moved it because, with no other room free where he could crawl about, he was forced to move it because, with no other room free where he could crawl about, but later on he came to enjoy it. He
rented the room, but Gregor found it easy to give up having the door open, and so the door to this room was often kept closed in the evening. But Gregor found it easy to give up having the door open,
, and the gentleman in the middle, who seemed to count as an authority for the other two, did indeed cut off a piece of meat while it was still in its dish, clearly wishing to establish whether it was sufficiently cooked or
, and Gregor’s mother and sister, who had been looking on anxiously, began to breathe again and smile. The family themselves ate in the kitchen. Nevertheless, Gregor’s father came into the living room before
the violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the kitchen. It seemed remarkable to Gregor that above all the various noises of eating their chewing teeth could still be heard, as if they had wanted to
began playing. When the violin began playing they became attentive, stood up and went on tip-toe over to the door of the hallway where they stood pressed against each other. When the violin began playing they became attentive, stood up
Gregor’s father as if he had been the violin player himself. The gentlemen stepped back into the room and waited. Gregor’s father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother with the music and
. She calmly prepared everything for her to begin playing; his parents, who had never rented a room out before and therefore showed an exaggerated courtesy towards the three gentlemen, did not even dare to sit
he was so considerate about the others. He was covered in the dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest movement; he carried threads, hairs, and remains of food about on his
, but he was not too shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living room. No-one noticed him, though. The family was totally preoccupied with the violin playing; at first, the
’s sister was playing so beautifully. Her face was leant to one side, following the lines of music with a careful and melancholy expression. It really now seemed very obvious that they had expected to hear some beautiful or
crawled a little further forward, keeping his head close to the ground so that he could meet her eyes if the chance came. He was determined to make his way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show
. He never wanted to let her out of his room, not while he lived, anyway; his shocking appearance should, for once, be of some use to him; he wanted to be at every door of his room at once
. Samsa!”, shouted the middle gentleman to Gregor’s father, pointing, without wasting any more words, with his forefinger at Gregor as he slowly moved forward. Samsa
father seemed to think it more important to calm the gentlemen before driving Gregor out, even though they were not at all upset and seemed to think Gregor was more entertaining than the violin playing had been. He rushed up to them
Gregor’s father for explanations, raised their arms like he had, tugged excitedly at their beards and moved back towards their room only very slowly. Meanwhile Gregor’s sister had overcome the despair she had
. He urged them and pressed them until, when he was already at the door of the room, the middle of the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot and brought Gregor’s father to 
the floor—“I give immediate notice on my room. For the days that I have been living here I will, of course, pay nothing at all, on the contrary I will consider whether to proceed with some kind of action for damages
was not sleeping at all. And indeed, his two friends joined in with the words: “And we also give immediate notice.” With that, Gregor took hold of the door handle and slammed the door. Gregor
mother’s lap fell from her trembling fingers and landed loudly on the floor. “Father, Mother”, said his sister, hitting the table with her hand as introduction, “we can’t carry on
’s brother, I don’t want to call this monster my brother, all I can say is: we have to try and get rid of it. We’ve done all that’s humanly possible to look after it and
and then come home to be tortured like this, we can’t endure it. Her words seemed to give Gregor’s father some more definite ideas. He sat upright, played with his uniform cap between the plates
the tears that had taken hold of her, displacing her earlier certainty. His sister shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the helplessness and tears that had taken hold of her, displacing her earlier certainty
he would have seen long ago that it’s not possible for human beings to live with an animal like that and he would have gone of his own free will. “If he could just understand us”, repeated Gregor
’s comprehension, his sister even abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair as she pushed herself
rushed over to behind her father, who had become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his hands in front of Gregor’s sister as if to protect her. But Gregor had had no intention of frightening
stopped and looked round. He stopped and looked round. They seemed to have realized his good intention and had only been alarmed briefly. Now they all looked at him in unhappy silence. His mother lay in her chair with her legs stretched out
. He was amazed at the great distance that separated him from his room, and could not understand how he had covered that distance in his weak state a little while before and almost without noticing it. He concentrated on crawling as
. He did not turn it all the way round as he felt his neck becoming stiff, but it was nonetheless enough to see that nothing behind him had changed, only his sister had stood up. With his last glance Gregor saw that
. She had been standing there waiting and sprung forward lightly, Gregor had not heard her coming at all, and as she turned the key in the lock she said loudly to her parents “At last!”. “What now
entire body was aching, but the pain seemed to be slowly getting weaker and weaker and would finally disappear altogether. He could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back or the inflamed area around it
watched as it slowly began to get light everywhere outside the window too. Then, without his willing it, his head sank down completely, and his last breath flowed weakly from his nostrils. When the cleaner
. She thought Gregor was laying there so still on purpose, playing the martyr; she attributed all possible understanding to him. When she had no success with that she tried to make a nuisance of herself and poked at him
Samsa soon realised what had really happened, opened her eyes wide, whistled to herself, but did not waste time to yank open the bedroom doors and shout loudly into the darkness of the bedrooms: “Come
. Grete was fully dressed as if she had never been asleep, and the paleness of her face seemed to confirm this. “Dead?” asked Mrs. Samsa, looking at the charwoman enqui
Grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: “Just look how thin he was. He didn’t eat anything for so long. The food came out again just the same as when it went
Gregor’s body was indeed completely dried up and flat, they had not seen it until then, but now he was not lifted up on his little legs, nor did he do anything to make them look away. Mrs.
, and stood around Gregor’s corpse with their hands in the pockets of their coats. It was already the end of March, after all. The three gentlemen stepped out of their room and looked round in amazement
and Grete on the other arm and his daughter on the other. Grete now and then pressed her face against her father’s arm. Grete now and then pressed her face against her father’s arm. Grete
sa as if he had been suddenly overcome with humility and wanted permission again from Mr. Samsa for his decision. Mr. Samsa merely opened his eyes wide and briefly nodded to him several times. Mr
and took their hats from the stand, took their sticks from the holder, bowed without a word and left the premises. Once there, all three took their hats from the stand, took their sticks from
and the two women followed them out onto the landing; but they had had no reason to mistrust the men’s intentions and as they leaned over the landing they saw how the three gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many
she’d finished her work for that morning. The cleaner came in while they were writing to tell them she was going, she’d finished her work for that morning. They decided the best way to make use of that day was for
. The charwoman stood in the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous good news to report, but would only do it if she was clearly asked to. The almost vertical little o
saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing everything in detail but, with outstretched hand, he made it quite clear that she was not to. Mr. Samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing
, as she was prevented from telling them all about it, she suddenly remembered what a hurry she was in and, clearly peeved, called out “Cheerio then, everyone”, turned round sharply and left
Samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat there watching for a while. Then he called out: “Come here, then. Let’s forget about all that old stuff,
had the tram, filled with warm sunshine, all to themselves. Leant back comfortably on their seats, they discussed their prospects and found that on closer examination they were not at all bad—until then they had never asked each other
and Mrs. Samsa were struck, almost simultaneously, with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady. They became quieter. Just from each other’s glance and almost without knowing